So, uh, of course, I'm to be re-examined physically, I believe, in, uh, the early summer of
1954.
You mean 1953?
You know, 1953, you're right.
You're right, Summer.
Do you mean June?
Around that time, yes, sir.
Well, Mr. Gold you knew in July of course.
You knew ever since June.
The day shine was likely to be over.
He drafted the Army, didn't you?
Sir, the first step was the physical of the re-examination.
If he were kept in the status when she had been a physical disqualification, he could not
have been.
There was after he passed the physical examination or was found, it was found that the physical
defect he had was remedied.
Uh, from that point on, I would say he certainly was eligible for call back in the arm.
So, you know, you know, you're right.
Well, when did he face his physical?
It was July, I believe, sir.
In July?
Yes, sir.
The early part of July.
Now, when in July specifically?
The early part.
Sometimes before the day of July.
Yes, sir.
Then from a period prior to the eight-day of July until he was actually inducted on November
13th, you knew Mr. Cohn that they shine in all likelihood be inducted in the Army, did
you not?
Yes, sir.
Well, Mr. Cohn, I remember passing you that also.
The members of the staff unit, common knowledge among the members of the staff, that's where
they know the secrets, sir.
I bet it was certainly no secrets.
That's what we understand, sir.
Well, Mr. Cohn, did you not then when you realized that there was a senator that you were
about to lose the member of your staff?
Why did you not then take steps to replace this young man?
So, it wasn't a question of replacing him or was the question of the work which he was
doing and had previously been doing.
Well, I know, but now you knew it, sir.
Certainly, before the eight-day of July, the year the young man that was going to leave
it, do you mean to say that after July 8th, you gave him some many work to wish your man
to leave?
Yes, sir.
We used them long as we could.
Notwithstanding the fact that you knew that you know about when he was the inducted?
No, sir.
Did you know about what time or the nearly elapsed between the pricing of a physical examination
and the actual induction?
I think the time varies, sir.
And in this case, it was July, August, September, October, four months, wasn't it?
Yes, sir.
And in spite of that fact, you continued to keep work to him from time to time.
Is that right, Mr. Gold?
Yes, sir.
Knowing that ultimately you were meeting?
Well, can you explain to this committee why this McCarthy Committee, staying on this tremendously
important work, as you say?
A digging out from you, this is subversive, and all that sort of thing.
Head on its path, the young man, whom you knew you would lose, but to whom you say you continued
to assign additional work.
Now, Mr. Gold, why did you do that if you have any explanation?
Yes, sir.
The reason is that the work assigned to him was additional work dealing with matters on which
he had already begun to work and matters on which he had special knowledge.
What character of work has he been doing and has he done from, we'll say in January,
is that about anything, isn't it?
I think it's February, are you my wife?
All right.
January, February, what character of work have they assigned me doing from the insubcantiness
in climate, percent of the McCarthy up to GIA?
I would say just about everything, sir.
For Mr. Gold, could you, could you be a little more particularly?
I could, sir.
And tell us just what character you're working to do now?
Yes, sir.
We're going to get along better now, you know, we'll get anxious.
And you, you, you repeated the being, and I'm out of the now, one of the smartest lawyers in these parts.
I deny it, sir.
We're all right.
All right.
Now, my question was, what character of work was Dave Shine doing from, we'll say early in February,
assuming that when he came to send him a gun, that's it you guys.
Very well, sir.
Dave Shine came with the committee of non-pacencelden originally to work on an investigation of the information,
United States Information Program and the Voice of America,
matters to which Dave had given a number of years study and writing before he did come with our committee.
The type of work he did to answer your question was this.
He interviewed personally and on many occasions, in fact most occasions, along,
I would say hundreds of witnesses working at the Voice of America and in various parts of the information program
and having knowledge of the Voice of America and the information program.
He checked out the facts obtained from these witnesses, obtained documentation,
participated in the setting up of what were a large number of executive sessions and public hearings
held by this committee in connection with that investigation.
Now, behind the refugees, I ain't showing it.
He interviewed hundreds of witnesses.
He did.
With respect to the Voice of America, we said.
He did, sir.
All right.
Mr. Coleman, of course, he documented the names of those witnesses.
Clarson?
A document of the names of many of those witnesses, sir.
And for not all of them, you mean me?
I can't say that he documented the names of all of them, sir.
And you have tires in your office here in this building, didn't you, sir?
We do, sir.
You have stenographers and secretaries, and you're disposal.
You keep a file on each individual investigation?
We do, sir.
I'm approaching heavy-tile on these signs, work with respect to the Voice of America, didn't you?
So a limited extensor.
Well, where your files are, on other cases, to a limited extent?
Very probably, sir.
Mr. Coleman, do you mean to tell us that they shine and can't arm this work with respect to the Voice of America?
Did not I steer his conference or interview with each witness, making memorandum for the file?
No, sir.
And you say there were hundreds of such witnesses?
Yes, sir.
They were memorandum made of a trial briefs we call them.
I'll interview with a great number of witnesses.
There are a number of witnesses, as to whom no such trial briefs were memorandum, amazing.
I'd be glad to tell you why, sir.
Did you work with him in the interviewing of those hundreds of witnesses with respect to the Voice of America?
Some occasions I did, sir.
I'm some I did not.
On those occasions, when you worked with him, did you make a file?
I'm some I did, and some I did not.
Those in Washington I did.
Very frequently, those interviewed in New York, I did not.
Why did you not make a file on those in New York and a memorandum of,
I've at least just the nopsest of their testimonies, their names, and their ad-rates?
Sir, because when we were in Washington, we had our secretarial staff available down here,
and we would dictate after talking with the witness the trial brief for a memorandum.
When we worked up in New York, we engaged and outside stenographer to come in
and do that same pipe work up in New York for us.
That went on for a short period of time, and when the bill was submitted by the outside stenographer,
that bill was disallowed by the Senate dispersing office, which said we had no right to have
Senator Rehires, Senator Grafick help in New York.
From that point on, what I believe we did not hire Senator Grafick help in New York.
We made some pencil notes, some pen notes, but we did not maintain this trial brief system,
which we did in the case of Washington witnesses.
Well, now you've shuffled back and forth between New York and Washington, didn't we did?
I mean, we didn't have us in order to register disposal of all times in New York,
didn't we did not sir?
But when you didn't have, you made pencil notes, you say?
On some occasions we did sir.
For Mr. Cohen, if you examine, they wit me.
With respect to subversion, our subversity, half again,
a divorce of America, whatever you want with us.
Do you mean to tell us Mr. Cohen that you didn't vim and back?
Right down the name of that witness, his address, his telephone number?
Is that what you said?
On all occasions we did not sir.
On all occasions both, can you explain why you were, why you were supposed to always be?
I'm talking about material with this issue.
Witnesses are by whom you would expect to establish facts.
I think if you interview the witness, then you know things you didn't gain a thing about it.
And they, science, knowledge of that witness, wouldn't be important to you.
Not if he knew nothing on a particular point of course.
Well, it might develop with this one qualification, sir.
It might develop that a witness would say something which we were not interested in on that point.
Something might later arise and we would think back that there were witnesses we had talked to
who did have something to say on something which we weren't then interested in but which had come up later.
That happened.
But what you're telling me, sir, is now that you and Mr. Shahn would go and interview these witnesses
as to obtain the areas and knowledge, instead of the knowledge,
and would not of all times even make a notation, a memorandum of their names in their addresses.
Is that right Mr. Cohen?
Yes it is, sir.
Well, can you give the committee any explanation of why you conducted your investigations in that manner?
Yes, sir.
The first explanation I can give to the committee on that is I think members of the committee know
as we have a very limited staff, they work hard, they know no hours, they work nights,
they work times, they would not allow us the nographer to work.
They talk on occasion to dozens of witnesses in different places on a day and on a night.
This small group of people down on that staff do a job, a wonderful job which is not done by people many times in number
I think in a lot of other places.
And I think that if there are some lapses in efficiency or a file or the set-up is not what it might be at the end.
At a large cooperation of something like that I think the members of the committee can understand the limitations under which we work.
And if there is any blame to be attached for certain lack of efficiency on some things I am sure that blame is mine.
Mr. Cohen, was it, was that one reason why you wanted to save China to your disposal, the social,
the hiking was conducted in the army, that is, to give you the responsibility on his investigations with these witnesses.
Generally, yes sir, you are right there, one important category was the fact that there have been witnesses to whom he had sought concerning
when we needed information for more complete information than we had.
And going through file or going into other matters it became necessary and the Senate of Macrossi found it necessary on a number of occasions for us to communicate with Mr. Shine and get information from him or get clarification and advice from him on certain situations.
Well that's, when you would get that information from Mr. Shine.
Yes sir.
Was that the documented information that he had or just what he had the larger here in his range in his mind?
A good deal of it sir was information which he had in his mind, we would sometimes go down with lists of witnesses.
I came across one the other day and he would give us his recollection as to what those witnesses could or could not help us on, especially remember it.
There were other occasions when there was not documentation.
So when you realized that prior to July 8th, this young man was going to leave you, why didn't his limbs have him sit down with Mr. Nautilus, here in Washington and document all of this information that there was particularly with his own knowledge in about which nobody else knew.
We just take certain steps along the line sir.
I know Mr. Hohenberg, why didn't you do what I asked you there? Why didn't you have Bay Shine sit down with Mr. Lager Bernstein in effect now Bay? You're leaving us.
You know facts that we want to know. So down here in Dictates because you're going, why didn't you do that, Mr. Hohen?
We did not do that to a complete extensor because it was impossible for us at that time to anticipate every single thing that might arise on a later occasion.
We tried to anticipate some of the important things. We tried to cover them. We were successful in front cases. And others we were not successful.
Our communications were saved after he was in. We were about things which arose on the spot then and which needed clarification where we needed some information from him.
And you say that subsequently July 8th when you knew you were going to continue to give additional assignments of work to Lee?
He continued to work for us sir on matter. I don't believe he started any new matters. But he continued to work for us on matters which he had been working up until the very time he went into.
Now in the main he's been working on matters pertaining to the birth of America we understand.
That was certainly one of the very important things he was doing.
What other important thing was you doing with school?
He was working on preliminary investigations of the Army of another of a certain government intelligence agency, not the FBI.
He was working on a preliminary investigation concerning possible delay in the development of the hydrogen bomb, possible communist connections.
On the part of persons concerned with the development of the atomic bomb and the hydrogen bomb he was working on communist infiltration in the United Nations and UNESCO.
He worked on the government printing office investigations. There are undoubtedly others that pose a one which specifically occurred in the right now.
How many people were on your stand?
Very few unfortunately I believe sir we had about nine or ten working men. That subject the correction I might be one or two of.
I might say this was the Jenkins the setup at the beginning the first six months or so such that practically the only people working on certain things were Dave Shine and myself for some occasional help from one or two other investigators.
The rest of the subcommittee staff was working on investigations with which I had nothing to do under the direction of Senator McCartney.
Well now Mr. Cohn from July 8th to November 3rd is the period of approximate the four months isn't it?
I'm doing that for much paid you and the senator from which comes to you that this boy was leaving you.
And in spite of that fact you're telling this committee that you did not have him being get his works heard.
Get his report to him from Rita's memorandum so that you would have the benefit of all the knowledge that he had when they came that he put on the uniform of the United States Army.
My answer to Jenkins there is that we took as many steps as we possibly could consistent with us that up to transfer work and say the things with which he was involved would be carried out without him.
But we did not do what I just said we did not and could not have done a complete job we tried if we did not succeed.
And on the other hand you could continue to assign additional work to the judge.
When you say additional work Mr. Jenkins I don't think we are saying any work on any no investigation to Mr. Shine from that point on.
Mr. Cohn since July 8th and report November 3rd, did you have files made up as a result of reports given by Dave Shine?
Sir undoubtedly reports given by him sir.
Are they Davey?
I don't know sir I haven't looked out the glance to insupply to you whatever we have.
Here was Davey.
F***ing the officers I imagine.
Now we've already just sent you down there with the examination of breams and proceed to MacArthur statements if you work.
In all of the sudden they have thousands of files out there is that right?
I am again going to say that I probably am guilty of inefficiency here sir but I don't believe I have ever personally gone through any of these.
I would say that there must be a thousand files or something like that.
Well if you go through the file on the voice of America I have not to sometimes.
There is no file on the voice of America as such as I know Mr. Jenkins there are probably upwards of a hundred files dealing with the information program in the voice of America investigation.
Mr. Carr keeps the file as a safety can I think according to an FCI technique which I think is good and it is somewhat difficult to understand.
But there are a great number of files on the voice of America and the information program investigation.
Mr. Cohn can you produce the earth in the report?
It's documented.
Made by Dave Shine between July and November 3rd.
I imagine sir.
You have that?
I am sure it will be one of the files because.
You sure that you can.
Yes sir.
What will you do sir?
I would be glad to see you.
Can you Mr. Cohn produce the committee in its documents prepared by Dave Shine here is eight weeks training at four days?
I can.
You can.
Yes sir.
What were those reports on?
The first of the principal things there was the three interim reports of this subcommittee on the investigation it conducted on the information agency in the voice of America specifically.
The three interim reports are on number one I believe the engineering facilities of the voice of America subtitled bakery, Baker West.
Number two the United States information centers and number three the information agency proper of the voice of America as a subdivision.
What sections relating to those interim reports which appear in the annual report of the subcommittee substantial parts of those reports were prepared by Dave Shine while he was in the arms.
And the further answer your question sir I imagine some of his notes are around some other things on those lines.
So the principal reason that you wanted conferences was Mr. Shine if he was vested in the army was to assist you in preparing the reports that you spoken of.
So I don't know if it was the most important information we got.
What was the most important with Cohn?
Well they might be a different sort of opinion on the fact about that some of the boys feel that the most important matter is discussed with him for interviews which he had conducted interviews which he had conducted concerning fort lineman and the radar installations and information which he had about that.
For those interviews documented for me sir.
For those interviews.
Riddings to writing.
I don't know if they were or not.
I know that information was obtained from him and I know that certain action was taken on the basis of that information.
Who interviewed you?
On that?
Yes.
I talked to him about that.
Senator McCarthy talks on Jim Julianna talks on I believe Frank Cox.
And sometimes you talk to him on the post report date?
Yes sir.
So he was the fourth Dicks mystery Cohn.
Did he do any inventing any work for the committee?
Investigative?
Yes.
The only investigative work he would have done sir is I think that after training on certain weekends area of death the training I think it's a lot of that he did interview a number of witnesses.
And do you know what respect the one subject?
I can at this moment sir recall one dealing with communism in defense plans.
I think that he talked with some witnesses he had been handling on the Voice of America and information program investigation.
Did he make a written memoranda of those interviews?
I am inclined to think that he did sir and backed on the Voice of America.
I know he caused a witness to whom he talked to draw off a written report with certain statements and recommendations.
I believe he had that written report sent to me with a copy for him.
I noticed that the other day.
Well, Mr. Cohn.
So just back to the work then but Mr. Shane.
The committee was the sport takes a little later.
You being a lawyer of course.
Understand the importance of the independence of the three great branches of the government.
I just have to say.
You understand the reason why it is a check in the development.
And that one should be and must be entirely independent of the others.
I think I can agree with you to a certain extent.
I am sure you don't want my views on the separation of powers.
I believe that there of necessity has to be a certain amount of overlapping and working together.
I don't believe the complete independence of the three branches should mean the fight of one branch by another branch.
You of course were originally the lady branch.
Yes sir.
To take their seasons with the executive branch.
And he knew this boy was about a member of the army.
You knew it's time to rely on him.
Yes sir.
I'll ask him Mr. Cohn whether or not you know the Sunday McCarthy first post the General Rebar on July 8th.
I don't know the exact date but General Rebar says until I 8th I'm sure that's it.
And you heard General Rebar says that Senator McCarthy on that date has him for a direct commission.
I don't know if the testimony was the senator asked him for it.
I think there was sir. I'm correct that he wanted to know if Dave was qualified for a commission in the army.
And what he should do and put those two get it.
Yes sir.
I don't know if you want General Rebar said we're talking about the 8th they have you lying now.
And General Rebar was the general in the army as you know and the men conducted the senator McCarthy.
And he was the stand as the sort of a liaison officer between the army and the Senate.
You knew that?
Well I know sir that it developed a general Rebar job was the processing of applications just such as this.
I think you want General Rebar says on page 24.
At that time Senator McCarthy informed me that he was very much interested in obtaining a direct reserve commission for his consultant Mr. D. David Cheyne.
But the bone you heard General Rebar just about that didn't you?
Like this.
You knew that Senator McCarthy did that didn't you?
I the conversation I heard sir was Senator McCarthy asking General Rebar whether Dave Cheyne would qualify for a commission and if he would, how Dave would go about applying for it.
And I point out further to you the testimony of General Rebar.
The second point out is our recall is that he felt that Mr. Cheyne because of his background of investigating his investigative experience with the committee was fully qualified for a commission.
Mr. Bone you as I am an occasion much yes sir and the father about that time as I recall it a few minutes back then he shaded my conversation with Senator Mr. Wright team in Mr. Roy Cohn game in the room.
That's correct isn't it?
Yes sir.
And he said his brother Mr. Cohn also emphasized that too is it Mr. Cohn?
Emphasize what sir?
Emphasize if he says that he is that this boy I was qualified for reason of his investigative experience for a commission in the Army.
I'm sure I could have said that.
And you emphasize that.
I'm Mr. Cohn nothing wrong with that as far as I'm concerned.
Well I understand that if that's just the isolated days it's in nothing else.
And I didn't mean there was nothing wrong with the actor I don't think there is.
I meant there was nothing I have no disagreement with that testimony.
But it's that time now.
A United States Senator and you as the chief counsel we're talking to General Rebar about a commission for your friends, close companions and the members of the Casi Investigating Staff that's correct isn't it?
It's correct that it's extensor we were talking to the man on Capitol Hill charged with the duty of processing applications such as this for people working on Capitol Hill about an application that might be filed by someone who was working on Capitol Hill.
And you wanted his friend of yours and you wanted this member of the McCarty staff to receive a direct commission instead of entering the Army as a whole private duty.
I thought he was entitled to a commission.
I know but I'm sorry. Oh yes I thought he was entitled to a commission. I told him.
Yes. And Mr. Cohn I will ask you if it isn't a thing.
That's from that time that is July 8th until the lights say July.
It's eight of about 22 or 22 days. If he didn't call General Rebar practically every day.
Who will respect the list of this commission for these day the chance.
No sir. How many times did you call him?
I have no idea how many times sir I can give you a general idea.
All right will you please do so.
As we as General Rebar testified I believe when he was leaving Senate and McCarty's office the senators told me General Rebar's presence to follow the matter up with General Rebar.
I did that. I don't know how many times I spoke to General Rebar I would say it might have been three times four times something like that.
I do know sir that I would place a call to General Rebar and it would usually be two or three days before I would get the thoughts from he apparently spent most of his time up on Capitol Hill joining in and out of the offices of the various senators and the various committees.
And he was a busy man and it was no easy job to get him on the telephone.
I don't think I talked with him every day. He's got his age.
Close exciteration. Mr. Cohn I'll ask you if you're bidding the emphasize with General Rebar than the facility for fees.
Indeed it's getting this boy a commission knowing that once he was drafted it would then be too late to get a commission.
I think that's a fair statement.
Now how many times would you say Mr. Cohn that you called this general in the army about this one boy?
I would think the follow-up call that to the conversation when General Rebar was going to look into it might have been four or three or four or five something like that.
So it was carried in the month.
Over a period of some time.
Whatever it is sir three weeks.
Did you deny that you called him practically everything that you called?
Every day sir.
Yes.
I certainly deny that I spoke with him every day.
Now about calling him every day.
I might have told Francis the Revers in the office to place a call to General Rebar.
If the call replaced the General Rebar and General Rebar were not there as a normal practice.
Our secretary would place the call again that afternoon probably place it again the next morning.
And I suppose that would go on until I got General Rebar on the phone and saw it.
As far as my having spoke on the phone with General Rebar every day.
I don't think I did sir.
Mr. Cohn you know I'm sure I didn't.
You know who General Rebar is?
You know it's a character.
You know it's a recognition book.
It's not the same thing.
I know I know he has.
I have no reason to doubt that.
Yes sir.
I want to read you some testimony of the eight thirty to the records.
General Rebar.
I first met Christensen.
How many telephone calls would you have to make you a thing?
General Rebar.